# rock-paper-scissors

This is a coding project to demonstrate my knowledge of basic JavaScript.

During this project I really struggled to apply what I had learned through the Odin Project. I had taken lots of notes on the topic and thought I had a good grasp with JavaScript, until it came to the application aspect and building a working game. My takeaways and realizations are:

1. Having a random script from an array or number selected is a little tricky. If you use the Math.random(); funtion, it will select a number between 0-1, which would be a decimal. Which does not work when you have a number or string outside of those parameters. To bypass this you have to use the Math.floor() function to set the number to 0 (or bring it to the floor, which makes sense). After this is done, you can run Math.random inside that function, like so: Math.floor(Math.random()). Which will select a random number starting at 0. This is just the first part. Next you need to multiply that function by the "array".length. For example: "rps.length" which was rps = ["Rock, Paper, Scissors"]. Together this would select a random number between 0-2, which would pick: rock, paper, or scissors. The important thing to note is that arrays start at 0, not 1. So the first item in the array: "rock," really is [0] and "paper" is [1], while scissors is [2].

2. Although, I went into the assignment with knowledge of scope, I definetely had to remind myself to keep things within the appropriate functions and or in the general scope. An example of this was computerScore and playerScore that needed to be available in the general scope for functions playRound() and runGame() to work properly. Since both used those variables to run their functions.

3. For the longest time I kept trying to create a third function roundResults() and pile in a lot of the win conditions. My intentions were to run playRound() into roundResults() to keep track of score and declare a winner, and then to send those results into runGame() to finalize the game. The issue I was running into was that roundResults() was never being called outside of that function and that playRound() was not being called within that function to gather data. While I'm sure there was a way to fix this and having the knowledge that I have now I think I could make it work, the easier option was to keep the score conditions inside the playRound() function. This option was the better one in my opinion because playRound() was already tracking conditions of player wins and computer wins. All I had to add was whether the playerScore++ or computerScore++ went up.

4. Last but not least, I frequented The Odin Project's discord channel to see how others were struggling with the problem and a lot of users were confused on the return vs console.log commands. While I definetely had a couple issues with it, I was able to learn very quickly that return will exit out of the function with whatever condition it accepted. This is good in the playRound() function, because the goal is to check which win condition needs to be applied and then to exit out with that data. Console.log is for sending messages to the console, which since the game is currently being run through Google Chrome Dev Tool's console this is good for sending messages along with the functions.

Overall, I feel much better finally successfully tackling this assignment. When I first opened it, I was a little skeptical getting started, although confident that I had the knowledge to tackle it. However, I hit many walls throughout and even got to a point where I was humbled by my lack of foundational skills that I had to learn throughout this assignment. I took many breaks, worked on it as much as I could, and thought about it A LOT while I was away from my computer. All of this together created a wonderful learning opportunity, that while stressful, helped me a lot in the end.